CSS tells the browser how to display your webpage. 
You can use CSS to set the color, font, size, and other aspects of HTML elements.

In this course, you'll learn CSS by designing a menu page for a cafe webpage.

Step 1
As you learned in the last few steps of the Cat Photo App, 
there is a basic structure needed to start building your web page.
Add the <!DOCTYPE html> tag, and an html element with a lang attribute of en.

Step 2
Add a head element within the html element, so you can add a title element. 
The title element's text should be Cafe Menu.

Step 3
The title is one of several elements that provide extra information not visible on the web page, 
but it is useful for search engines or how the page gets displayed.
Inside the head element, nest a meta element with an attribute named charset set to the value utf-8 
to tell the browser how to encode characters for the page. Note that meta elements are self-closing.

Step 4
To prepare to create some actual content, add a body element below the head element.

Step 5
The name of the cafe is CAMPER CAFE. 
Add an h1 element within your body element. 
Give it the name of the cafe in capitalized letters to make it stand out.

Step 6
To let visitors know the cafe was founded in 2020, 
add a p element below the h1 element with the text Est. 2020.

Step 7
Since the p element added in the previous step provides supplemental information about the cafe, 
nest both the h1 and p elements in a header element.

Step 8
It's time to add some menu content. Add a main element below the existing header element. 
It will eventually contain pricing information about coffee and desserts offered by the cafe.

Step 9
There will be two sections on the menu, one for coffees and one for desserts. 
Add a section element within the main element so you have a place to put all the coffees available.

Step 10
Create an h2 element in the section element and give it the text Coffee.

Step 11
Up until now, you have been limited regarding the presentation and appearance of the content you create. 
To start taking control, add a style element within the head element.

Step 12
You can add style to an element by specifying it in the style element and setting a property for it like this:
"element {
 property: value;
}"
Center your h1 element by setting its text-align property to the value center.

Step 13
In the previous step, you used a type selector to style the h1 element. 
Go ahead and center the h2 and p elements with a new type selector for each one.

Step 14
You now have three type selectors with the exact same styling. 
You can add the same group of styles to many elements by creating a list of selectors. 
Each selector is separated with commas like this:
"selector1, selector2 {
  property: value;"
Use a selector list to center the h1, h2 and p elements at the same time.

Step 15
You have styled three elements by writing CSS inside the style tags. 
This works, but since there will be many more styles, 
it's best to put all the styles in a separate file and link to it.
We have created a separate styles.css file for you and switched the editor view to that file. 
You can change between files with the tabs at the top of the editor.
Start by rewriting the styles you have created into the styles.css file. 
Make sure to exclude the opening and closing style tags.

Step 16
Now that you have the CSS in the styles.css file, go ahead and remove the style element and all its content. 
Once it is removed, the text that was centered will shift back to the left.

Step 17
Now you need to link the styles.css file so the styles will be applied again. 
Nest a self-closing link element in the head element. 
Give it a rel attribute value stylesheet and an href attribute value of styles.css.

Step 18
For the styling of the page to look similar on mobile as it does on a desktop or laptop, 
you need to add a meta element with a special content attribute.
Add the following within the head element:
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />

Step 19
The text is centered again so the link to the CSS file is working. 
Add another style to the file that changes the background-color property to brown for the body element.

Step 20
That brown background makes it hard to read the text. 
Change the body element's background color to be burlywood so it has some color 
but you are still be able to read the text.

Step 21
The div element is used mainly for design layout purposes unlike the other content elements 
you have used so far. 
Add a div element inside the body element and then move all the other elements inside the new div.

Step 22
The goal now is to make the div not take up the entire width of the page. 
The CSS width property is perfect for this. 
Create a new type selector in the style sheet that gives your div element a width of 300px.

Step 23
Comments in CSS look like this:
"/* comment here */"
In your style sheet, comment out the line containing the background-color property and value, 
so you can see the effect of only styling div element. This will make the background white again.

Step 24
Now use the existing div selector to set the background color of the div element to be burlywood.

Step 25
Now it's easy to see that the text is centered inside the div element. 
Currently, the width of the div element is specified in pixels (px). 
Change the width property's value to be 80%, to make it 80% the width of its parent element (body).

Step 26
Next, you want to center the div horizontally. 
You can do this by setting its margin-left and margin-right properties to auto. 
Think of the margin as invisible space around an element. 
Using these two margin properties, center the div element within the body element.

Step 27
So far you have been using type selectors to style elements. 
A class selector is defined by a name with a dot directly in front of it, like this:
".class-name {
  styles"
}
Change the existing div selector into a class selector by replacing div with a class named menu.

Step 28
To apply the class's styling to the div element, add a class attribute to the div element's opening tag 
and set its value to menu.

Step 29
Since the cafe's main product for sale is coffee, 
you could use an image of coffee beans for the background of the page.
Delete the comment and its contents inside the body type selector. 
Now add a background-image property 
and set its value to url(https://cdn.freecodecamp.org/curriculum/css-cafe/beans.jpg).

Step 30
It’s looking good. Time to start adding some menu items. 
Add an empty article element under the Coffee heading. 
It will contain a flavor and price of each coffee you currently offer.

Step 31
article elements commonly contain multiple elements that have related information. 
In this case, it will contain a coffee flavor and a price for that flavor. 
Nest two p elements inside your article element. 
The first one's text should be French Vanilla, and the second's text 3.00.

Starting below the existing coffee/price pair, add the following coffee and prices 
using article elements with two nested p elements inside each. 
As before, the first p element's text should contain the coffee flavor 
and the second p element's text should contain the price.
"Caramel Macchiato 3.75
Pumpkin Spice 3.50
Hazelnut 4.00
Mocha 4.50"

Step 33
The flavors and prices are currently stacked on top of each other 
and centered with their respective p elements. 
It would be nice if the flavor was on the left and the price was on the right.
Add the class name flavor to the French Vanilla p element.

Step 34
Using your new flavor class as a selector, set the text-align property's value to left.

Step 35
Next, you want to align the price to the right. 
Add a class named price to your p element that has 3.00 as its text.

Step 36
Now align the text to the right for the elements with the price class.

Step 37
That is kind of what you want, but now it would be nice if the flavor and price were on the same line. 
p elements are block-level elements, so they take up the entire width of their parent element.
To get them on the same line, you need to apply some styling to the p elements, 
so they behave more like inline elements. 
Add a class attribute with the value item to the first article element under the Coffee heading.

Step 38
The p elements are nested in an article element with the class attribute of item. 
You can style all the p elements nested anywhere in elements with a class named item like this:
".item p { }"
Using the above selector, add a display property with value inline-block 
so the p elements behave more like inline elements.

Step 39
That's closer, but the price didn't stay over on the right. 
This is because inline-block elements only take up the width of their content. 
To spread them out, add a width property to the flavor and price class selectors that have a value of 50% each.

Step 40
Well that did not work. 
Styling the p elements as inline-block and placing them on separate lines in the code creates an extra space 
to the right of the first p element, causing the second one to shift to the next line. 
One way to fix this is to make each p element's width a little less than 50%.
Change the width value to 49% for each class to see what happens.

Step 41
That worked, but there is still a little space on the right of the price.
You could keep trying various percentages for the widths. 
Instead, simply move the price p element to be on the same line and make sure there is no space between them.

Step 42
Now go ahead and change both the flavor and price class' widths to be 50% again.

Step 43
Now that you know it works, you can change the remaining article and p elements to match the first set. 
Start by adding the class item to the other article elements.

Step 44Passed
Next, position the other p elements to be on the same line with no space between them.

Step 45Passed
To complete the styling, add the applicable class names flavor and price to all the remaining p elements.

Step 46
If you make the width of the page preview smaller, 
you will notice at some point, some of the text on the left starts wrapping around to the next line. 
This is because the width of the p elements on the left side can only take up 50% of the space.
Since you know the prices on the right have significantly fewer characters, 
change the flavor class width value to be 75% and the price class width value to be 25%.

Step 47
You will come back to styling the menu in a few steps, but for now, 
go ahead and add a second section element below the first for displaying the desserts offered by the cafe.

Step 48
Add an h2 element in the new section and give it the text Desserts.

Step 49
Add an empty article element under the Desserts heading. Give it a class attribute with the value item.

Step 50
Nest two p elements inside your article element. 
The first one's text should be Donut, and the second's text 1.50. 
Put both of them on the same line making sure there is no space between them.

Step 51
For the two p elements you just added, add dessert as the value of the first p element's class attribute 
and the value price as the second p elements class attribute.

Step 52
Something does not look right. 
You added the correct class attribute value to the p element with Donut as its text, 
but you have not defined a selector for it.
Since the flavor class selector already has the properties you want, 
just add the dessert class name to it.